# Competitive Programming Solutions
Archive of my solutions to various problems in competitive programming. If it is not obvious how a certain solution works, there may be some in-code comments detailing the steps taken (not guaranteed!). If you are confused about anything or want me to write an editorial for a problem explaining how to do it, feel free to send a message (chroniclesofcode on codeforces, I am solving pretty much everyday so my response time should be fairly quick!).

Note: I have also included questions from leetcode, which is not exactly competitve programming but still 'algorithmic'.

# Things to keep in mind while on your solving journey

- Do not force a particular algorithm/methodology on a question. A lot of people come in with a mindset of 'is this DP? greedy? queue? dfs?' which is bad. You should be flexible and it's very common that a question will try to trick you into thinking it is a certain archetype.
- Try to make 'observations' that chain onto each other. Things that lead onto things will give you very logical conclusions and you can finally apply a generic algorithm at the end. First, turn the problem into something very simple - then you can finally ask 'is this DP?'.
- Upsolve. Solve questions above your level, that challenge you. This is well-known but most people need a reminder: life begins at the end of your comfort zone. If it doesn't challenge you, it doesn't change you.
- Spend less time trying to pick the 'optimal' questions. Just solve and solve - the more problems you do, the more experience you will gain. It doesn't matter what website, what judge - as long as it improves your problem solving skills it is valuable.
- Try hard on a question. Don't give up so easily - if you read an editorial, you should be able to definitively say what is something you will do differently next time when faced with a similar problem. Too many people give up too early, and end up just implementing the editorial. We are not solving these questions to improve our implementation skills, we are solving them to improve our problem solving skills.
- Stop learning algorithms (most likely). A large amount of competitive programmers (even up to a fairly high level) spend a lot of time learning algorithms - this does not improve problem solving, and essentially wastes your time if the question doesn't appear in the contest. Only decide to learn an algorithm when you are at a level where you judge it a necessity to perform - most likely, this level is much higher than you think.
- Never get stuck on one approach. If you watch top competitive programmers (e.g. tourist), you will notice he will try many different ways to tackle the problem quickly, and never gets stuck on one methodology. This goes back to the first entry "is this greedy?". People will always try to force what they think is right on a question, and the deeper you go, the less you want to restart from scratch. Your mind is lying to you - it is really no big deal to abandon your current approach if you aren't at the solution (even if you are 'very close to the answer'). Tourist has once said as a kid (gold medalist-kid however...) "I try various [strategies], and one of them is the right one. I am no genius. I am simply good at it."
- If a problem is hard, don't be afraid to get your hands dirty! Make some test cases, maybe n=6,7 and really wrestle with it. Apply your algorithm on it - what do you see? For beginners, they see a lot of high-level programmers neglect this step and think they should neglect it as well. Don't. Only neglect it if the question is truly too easy for you.
- What is it about this problem that is difficult? What aspect? What does it change? What can I do to make this problem easier? What would be the solution without this constraint?
